---
title: ""
layout: default
---

### Introduction to Logging in Linux

Logging is a critical component of system administration in Linux, providing a detailed record of system activities, events, and errors. Logs are essential for monitoring system performance, diagnosing issues, and ensuring security. They are generated by the kernel, system services, and applications, and are stored in various log files, typically found in the /var/log/ directory.<br>  
By analyzing log entries, administrators can pinpoint the exact moment an error occurred and understand the sequence of events leading up to it. This detailed insight allows for targeted troubleshooting, reducing downtime and improving system reliability.

### Key Log Files and Their Purposes

* /var/log/syslog: This is the primary log file for general system messages and application logs. It captures a wide range of events, making it a valuable resource for troubleshooting.

* /var/log/auth.log: Contains authentication-related messages, such as login attempts and sudo usage. This log is crucial for monitoring security and detecting unauthorized access.

* /var/log/kern.log: Logs messages from the kernel, including hardware errors and system warnings. It's useful for diagnosing low-level system issues.

* /var/log/dmesg: Contains kernel ring buffer messages, which are also accessible via the dmesg command. This log is particularly useful for troubleshooting hardware and boot issues.

### Server applications logs  
Besides the system level log there are server application logs that help to resolve service related problems. Examples of these related to our server VM are:  
* Apache: access.log, error.log
* UFW: ufw.log
* Most SSH related events are in auth.log

## Walkthrough activities
* Web-server related problem resolution (three example scenarios: configuration file problem, specific url-related problem, [access.log statistics script](webloganalyze.sh)  
(see the video)  
* Security related check - check that sudo user's account is not used from other than user's own ip-address. 
(see the video)

## Submission
Don't submit files. Paste your screenclips directly to ItsLearning answer box according to video instructions.
  
## Links
[ws5steps](ws5steps.md)   
[journalctl](journalctl.md)
